INITIAL CONFIGURATION COMMANDS:

- Sets a local reference point of the user email address and name to use
    git config --get user.email rlyons@live.co.uk
    git config --get user.name "Ross Lyons"

I see these as environmental variables that are set and used going forwards for all git interactions.

CREATING SSH KEY TO USE WITH GITHUB:

- Command to create a local SSH key
    ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C rlyons@live.co.uk

- Command to reveal the key to copy
    cat C:\Users\rlyon/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

- On the Github website, enter the user settings and navigate to the "SSH and GPG keys" page
- Click the green "New SSH Key" button, give it a memorable name and paste in the key copied earlier

The SSH key is generated in a default location if you do not provide one, this is in the user-profile and in a hidden folder labelled ".ssh".

CLONING A REMOTE REPO TO LOCAL STORAGE:

- Copy connection URL from the Github website repo page. MUST be SSH URL.
- Clone command to copy a repo from Github.
    git clone git@github.com:rlyons38/T-O-P.git

This creates a local copy of the git repo and creates a subfolder with the name of the repo to store all files in. There is no need to create a subfolder with the repo name in advance.

CHECKING LOCAL FILES FOR GIT STATUS:

- Command to check the git status of local files
    git status

This will check whether there are new files, amendments or deletions to sync to Github. This will state whether they have been "staged" locally or not, ready to be synced.
Only "staged" files locally can be synced up to Github, non-staged files will not be synced up.

STAGING FILES READY TO SYNC:

- Command to get files ready to be synced up to Github
    git add [FILENAME]
    git add --all

This will add the named files to the staging area ready to be commited. This is like a waiting room for the files and will show "green" when running the command 'git status'.
You can alternatively use the '--all' switch to add every change to the staging area, it is advised not to do this and be specific about what you are staging.

COMMITING CHANGES TO GITHUB:

- Command to commit changes
    git commit -m "comment on changes made"

This will commit the changes that are in the staging area. Using the '-m' switch adds a comment that is required for a commit to finish.
Smaller, descriptive commits are better than waiting for many changes until pushing a commit. The many comments will help paint a picture of changes made.

VIEW LOGS FROM GIT:

- Command to view details on git commands and who did them
    git log

This will show details on commits, the author and when it was actioned.